qms-app/FREE_DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md, before:

# Free Vercel Deployment Guide

## ✅ What You Get FREE

- **Vercel Free Tier**: 100GB bandwidth, unlimited deployments
- **Neon Database**: 3GB PostgreSQL database (recommended)
- **Custom Domain**: Optional, but free to add
- **Automatic HTTPS**: Included
- **Git Integration**: Auto-deploy on push

## 🚀 5-Minute Setup

### Step 1: Get a Free Database (Choose One)

#### Option A: Neon (Recommended)
1. Go to [neon.tech](https://neon.tech)
2. Sign up with GitHub
3. Create new project → Copy connection string
4. Format: `postgresql://user:pass@host/dbname?sslmode=require`

#### Option B: Supabase
1. Go to [supabase.com](https://supabase.com)
2. Sign up → New project
3. Go to Settings → Database → Copy URI

### Step 2: Push to GitHub
```bash
# In your project root
git add .
git commit -m "Ready for Vercel deployment"
git push origin main
```

### Step 3: Deploy to Vercel
1. Go to [vercel.com](https://vercel.com) → Sign up with GitHub
2. Click "New Project" → Import your repo
3. **Root Directory**: Set to `qms-app`
4. **Environment Variables**: Add these:
   ```
   DATABASE_URL=your_neon_or_supabase_connection_string
   NEXTAUTH_SECRET=any_random_32_character_string
   ```
5. Click "Deploy"

### Step 4: Done! 🎉
Your app will be live at `https://your-project-name.vercel.app`

## 💡 Free Tier Tips

### Database Optimization
- **Use connection pooling**: Already configured in your Prisma setup
- **Limit concurrent connections**: Free databases have connection limits
- **Use database indexes**: Your schema already has them

### Performance Tips
- **Static pages**: Your dashboard can be mostly static
- **Image optimization**: Use Next.js Image component (already in your code)
- **API caching**: Cache database queries where possible

### Staying Within Limits
- **Function timeout**: 10 seconds is plenty for your database operations
- **Bandwidth**: 100GB/month is generous for personal use
- **Database storage**: 3GB (Neon) can store thousands of quilt records

## 🔧 Environment Variables You Need

```bash
# Required
DATABASE_URL="postgresql://user:pass@host/db?sslmode=require"
NEXTAUTH_SECRET="generate_random_32_chars_here"

# Optional (Vercel sets automatically)
NEXTAUTH_URL="https://your-app.vercel.app"
VERCEL_URL="your-app.vercel.app"
```

## 📊 What Your Free Setup Includes

### Database (Neon Free)
- ✅ 3GB storage (~30,000 quilt records)
- ✅ Unlimited queries
- ✅ Connection pooling
- ✅ Automatic backups

### Hosting (Vercel Free)
- ✅ Global CDN
- ✅ Automatic HTTPS
- ✅ Custom domains
- ✅ Git integration
- ✅ Preview deployments

### Features That Work
- ✅ Quilt management (CRUD operations)
- ✅ Usage tracking
- ✅ Dashboard with statistics
- ✅ Import/Export (small files)
- ✅ Seasonal recommendations
- ✅ Search and filtering

## 🚨 Free Tier Limitations

### What Might Not Work
- ❌ Large file uploads (>4.5MB per function)
- ❌ Long-running operations (>10 seconds)
- ❌ Heavy concurrent usage (connection limits)

### Workarounds
- **File uploads**: Use external storage (Cloudinary free tier)
- **Long operations**: Break into smaller chunks
- **High traffic**: Upgrade when needed ($20/month Pro plan)

## 📈 When to Upgrade

You'll know it's time to upgrade when:
- Function timeouts (>10 seconds)
- Bandwidth exceeded (>100GB/month)
- Need team collaboration
- Want advanced analytics

## 🆘 Troubleshooting

### Common Free Tier Issues

1. **"Function timeout"**
   - Optimize database queries
   - Add database indexes (already done)
   - Use connection pooling (already configured)

2. **"Database connection failed"**
   - Check DATABASE_URL format
   - Ensure database allows external connections
   - Verify SSL mode is required

3. **"Build failed"**
   - Check all environment variables are set
   - Ensure DATABASE_URL is accessible during build

### Quick Fixes
```bash
# Test database connection locally
npm run db:generate
npm run db:push

# Check build locally
npm run build
```

## 🎯 Success Checklist

- [ ] Database created (Neon/Supabase)
- [ ] Code pushed to GitHub
- [ ] Vercel project created
- [ ] Environment variables set
- [ ] Deployment successful
- [ ] Database tables created
- [ ] App loads without errors

## 💰 Cost Breakdown

**Total Monthly Cost: $0**
- Vercel hosting: Free
- Neon database: Free (3GB)
- Domain (optional): $10-15/year
- SSL certificate: Free (included)

Your QMS app is perfect for the free tier! 🎉

Commit message:

feat: Complete Prisma removal and documentation update
BREAKING CHANGE: Completely eliminated all Prisma references from entire project

## What was removed:
- All Prisma service files and database configurations
- Prisma dependencies from package.json files
- Prisma scripts from package.json (db:generate, db:push, etc.)
- Prisma directory and schema files
- All @prisma/client imports from components

## What was updated:
- All markdown documentation files to reflect Neon-only architecture
- Component imports to use local validation types instead of Prisma types
- Package.json scripts to use Neon-compatible database operations
- Configuration files to remove Prisma external packages
- Tech stack upgrade spec to reflect Prisma removal
- Added proper TypeScript types for Season and QuiltStatus enums

## Current stack:
- Database: Neon Serverless PostgreSQL (direct SQL)
- ORM: None (pure SQL with Neon driver)
- API: tRPC with type-safe operations
- Frontend: Next.js 16 + React 19 + TypeScript

Build succeeds without any Prisma dependencies. Project is 100% Prisma-free.

qms-app/FREE_DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md, after:

# Free Vercel Deployment Guide

## ✅ What You Get FREE

- **Vercel Free Tier**: 100GB bandwidth, unlimited deployments
- **Neon Database**: 3GB PostgreSQL database (recommended)
- **Custom Domain**: Optional, but free to add
- **Automatic HTTPS**: Included
- **Git Integration**: Auto-deploy on push

## 🚀 5-Minute Setup

### Step 1: Get a Free Database (Choose One)

#### Option A: Neon (Recommended)
1. Go to [neon.tech](https://neon.tech)
2. Sign up with GitHub
3. Create new project → Copy connection string
4. Format: `postgresql://user:pass@host/dbname?sslmode=require`

#### Option B: Supabase
1. Go to [supabase.com](https://supabase.com)
2. Sign up → New project
3. Go to Settings → Database → Copy URI

### Step 2: Push to GitHub
```bash
# In your project root
git add .
git commit -m "Ready for Vercel deployment"
git push origin main
```

### Step 3: Deploy to Vercel
1. Go to [vercel.com](https://vercel.com) → Sign up with GitHub
2. Click "New Project" → Import your repo
3. **Root Directory**: Set to `qms-app`
4. **Environment Variables**: Add these:
   ```
   DATABASE_URL=your_neon_or_supabase_connection_string
   NEXTAUTH_SECRET=any_random_32_character_string
   ```
5. Click "Deploy"

### Step 4: Done! 🎉
Your app will be live at `https://your-project-name.vercel.app`

## 💡 Free Tier Tips

### Database Optimization
- **Use connection pooling**: Built-in with Neon Serverless Driver
- **Limit concurrent connections**: Free databases have connection limits
- **Use database indexes**: Your schema already has them

### Performance Tips
- **Static pages**: Your dashboard can be mostly static
- **Image optimization**: Use Next.js Image component (already in your code)
- **API caching**: Cache database queries where possible

### Staying Within Limits
- **Function timeout**: 10 seconds is plenty for your database operations
- **Bandwidth**: 100GB/month is generous for personal use
- **Database storage**: 3GB (Neon) can store thousands of quilt records

## 🔧 Environment Variables You Need

```bash
# Required
DATABASE_URL="postgresql://user:pass@host/db?sslmode=require"
NEXTAUTH_SECRET="generate_random_32_chars_here"

# Optional (Vercel sets automatically)
NEXTAUTH_URL="https://your-app.vercel.app"
VERCEL_URL="your-app.vercel.app"
```

## 📊 What Your Free Setup Includes

### Database (Neon Free)
- ✅ 3GB storage (~30,000 quilt records)
- ✅ Unlimited queries
- ✅ Connection pooling
- ✅ Automatic backups

### Hosting (Vercel Free)
- ✅ Global CDN
- ✅ Automatic HTTPS
- ✅ Custom domains
- ✅ Git integration
- ✅ Preview deployments

### Features That Work
- ✅ Quilt management (CRUD operations)
- ✅ Usage tracking
- ✅ Dashboard with statistics
- ✅ Import/Export (small files)
- ✅ Seasonal recommendations
- ✅ Search and filtering

## 🚨 Free Tier Limitations

### What Might Not Work
- ❌ Large file uploads (>4.5MB per function)
- ❌ Long-running operations (>10 seconds)
- ❌ Heavy concurrent usage (connection limits)

### Workarounds
- **File uploads**: Use external storage (Cloudinary free tier)
- **Long operations**: Break into smaller chunks
- **High traffic**: Upgrade when needed ($20/month Pro plan)

## 📈 When to Upgrade

You'll know it's time to upgrade when:
- Function timeouts (>10 seconds)
- Bandwidth exceeded (>100GB/month)
- Need team collaboration
- Want advanced analytics

## 🆘 Troubleshooting

### Common Free Tier Issues

1. **"Function timeout"**
   - Optimize database queries
   - Add database indexes (already done)
   - Use connection pooling (already configured)

2. **"Database connection failed"**
   - Check DATABASE_URL format
   - Ensure database allows external connections
   - Verify SSL mode is required

3. **"Build failed"**
   - Check all environment variables are set
   - Ensure DATABASE_URL is accessible during build

### Quick Fixes
```bash
# Test database connection locally
npm run db:test

# Check build locally
npm run build
```

## 🎯 Success Checklist

- [ ] Database created (Neon/Supabase)
- [ ] Code pushed to GitHub
- [ ] Vercel project created
- [ ] Environment variables set
- [ ] Deployment successful
- [ ] Database tables created
- [ ] App loads without errors

## 💰 Cost Breakdown

**Total Monthly Cost: $0**
- Vercel hosting: Free
- Neon database: Free (3GB)
- Domain (optional): $10-15/year
- SSL certificate: Free (included)

Your QMS app is perfect for the free tier! 🎉
